# ADR-001 - Django Monolith

Perhaps somewhat unfashionable, sbomify shall be a single monolith. The reason for this is that we want to make it easy for a small team to work on all parts of the application.

We started out with a [Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/) backend (with [Django Ninja](https://django-ninja.dev/) for the API). The reason for using Django for the backend is largely due to:

- It is well understood with a large community
- A full-featured admin interface
- A great ORM
- Massive adoption and will be well supported for years to come

Despite going for a Django-based structure, we still want to maintain an API-first approach. What this means is that even if we are using Django templates for the front-end, we will still try to use the API functions behind the scenes to have a singular code path to access the data.

## A detour in Vue land

At one point, we decided to move the front-end to Vue and have it interface with the API directly. This turned out to be a mistake. While we do want to maintain an API-first approach, leveraging Django Templates with Server-Side Rendering (SSR) minimizes complexity compared to Vue.

Perhaps equally important, using Vue for the front-end made it more challenging to do end-to-end testing. It is possible to use integration testing of course, but it is a lot more complex than writing a unit test for a Django Template. As such, we had a few blocks silently failing.

The decision going forward is to use Django Templates with Server-Side Rendering (SSR) directly in the monolith.

## The case against FastAPI

While Django might not be as fashionable as [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/), it does have more maturity and a robust framework, including both the ORM and Admin interface mentioned above.
